---
layout: master
include: content
title: CodeRefinery workshops moving online
permalink: /blog/2020/04/24/online-workshops-update/
---

*2020-04-24 - Radovan Bast, Richard Darst, Anne Fouilloux, Bj√∏rn
Lindi, Thor Wikfeldt*

---


After cancelling all our planned in-person workshops this spring due
to the ongoing pandemic, we decided to make the best of the situation
and start focusing our efforts on developing an online workshop
training programme. We decided to start small while learning the
mechanics of online teaching, so we began by offering an online
workshop covering only the
[Git-intro](https://coderefinery.github.io/git-intro/) lesson to a
group of around 25 participants on April 7-8. Neither teaching nor
attending online workshops is quite the same as attending in-person
events, but we were pleasantly surprised about how well the workshop
went and it definitely boosted our ambitions to move more of our
traditional workshops online! We believe this online format provides a
great learning opportunity for participants, but it also provides a
means for us to *scale up* and reach a larger audience than possible
with in-person workshops.

Many important lessons were learned in this first experiment and we
tried to summarize them all in a [previous
article](https://coderefinery.org/blog/2020/04/14/first-online-workshop/). We
hope that some of these experiences can be of help to others who are
going online with some of their teaching.


### New notify-me form

We expect to be delivering many more online workshops also after
Covid-19 restrictions are lifted and life starts returning to
normal. We realized that this means that our old notify-me form has
become obsolete - it is no longer relevant to only indicate in which
city you want to attend a workshop. So we created a [new more
fine-grained notify-me
form](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/#notify-me) where
people can sign up for updates about upcoming online and/or in-person
workshops and also indicate which lessons they are most interested
in. If you want to be informed of upcoming workshops, please sign
up. For people who have already particated in one or more workshops,
there is now also an option to indicate that you are interested in
participating as a helper or instructor.


### Plans for immediate future

We plan to arrange two full online CodeRefinery workshops covering all
our material before the summer. The format will be to split the
workshop content over six half-days spread over two weeks.


In May we will do our first full CodeRefinery workshop, starting on a
Tuesday, and ending on a Thursday the week after. Drawing on the
experience from this first full workshop, the plan is to deliver a
second online workshop in June.

### Join an online workshops as a helper

Instructors always need help and this is even more relevant for our
online workshops. Helpers assist learners in overcoming technical
problems and work through challenges or questions they may
have. Ideally, we need at least one helpers per breakout room (4-5
learners). Helpers don't have to be familiar with all the lesson
material, experience with even just one lesson/tool/approach is
sufficient. We therefore want to invite everyone who is interested in
giving back to the CodeRefinery project, and in helping to spread
better software development practices to the world, to register as
*Helper* for upcoming online or in-person workshops in our new
[notify-me
form](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/#notify-me). Remember
also that there is no better way to consolidate new knowledge than
teaching it to others!

  
### Bring your own breakout room/helper

With online courses over video we could in principle aim at reaching a
larger scale than in-person workshops which are limited by room-size
and being visible and audible, but also by the number of helpers. In
online workshops the presence of helpers is no less important to make
sure that each breakout room has a helper to answer questions during
exercise sessions. We are considering to offer participants the
possibility to "bring their own breakout room" to the workshop. This
way they can collaborate on exercises with colleagues they already
know, if they prefer so. More importantly, they can assign one person
who is more experienced in the toolset presented to take the role as
helper. Participating as helper not only means "giving" but is also a
great learning experience: both in the tools and in solving problems
and supporting and teaching other learners.